ADVERTISEMENT
Did you know? 
The Cyclops never
voyage from Martha’s 
further in 1974 with a 
Vineyard to South America. 
Other boats and planes have 
But although myriad fanciful
in the area over the years, 
the planes were never found. 
Legend of the Bermuda Triangle
death to the Bermuda Triangle.
seemingly vanished from the area
the distance a few weeks later. 
Barbados and the Chesapeake Bay. 
just sent “all’s well” messages. 
none of them prove that mysterious
many sources later attributed his 
happened to the great ship,” U.S. 
A pattern allegedly began forming 
By the time author Vincent Gaddis 
Atlantis and sea monsters to time 
warps and reverse gravity fields, 
disappearances occur more frequently
Joshua Slocum disappeared on a 1909 
coined the phrase “Bermuda Triangle”
every Bermuda Triangle disappearance
President Woodrow Wilson later said. 
All five planes flew aimlessly until 
lethalness on everything from aliens,
ships and airplanes have disappeared. 
on his first voyage to the New World, 
to magnetic anomalies, waterspouts or 
known as Flight 19, got severely lost. 
that solves the mystery. As one skeptic
Bermuda and Puerto Rico where dozens of 
14 men took off from a Fort Lauderdale, 
Since then, scores of fellow paranormal 
Atlantic Ocean roughly bounded by Miami, 
sensational bestseller about the legend. 
put it, trying to find a common cause for
William Shakespeare’s play “The Tempest,” 
equipped to do so, and an extensive search
Though it’s unclear exactly what happened, 
sent out an SOS distress call despite being
Charles Berlitz, whose grandfather founded 
writers have blamed the triangle’s supposed 
where true north and magnetic north lined up.
That same day, a rescue plane and its 13-man 
The area referred to as the Bermuda Triangle, 
may have enhanced the area’s aura of mystery. 
would either disappear or be found abandoned. 
Bermuda Triangle Theories and Counter-Theories
or Devil’s Triangle, covers about 500,000 square
When Christopher Columbus sailed through the area
in which vessels traversing the Bermuda Triangle 
The Bermuda Triangle is a mythical section of the 
Nonetheless, reports of unexplained disappearances 
found no wreckage. “Only God and the sea know what 
In 1941 two of the Cyclops’ sister ships similarly 
Then, in December 1945, five Navy bombers carrying 
huge eruptions of methane gas from the ocean floor.
miles of ocean off the southeastern tip of Florida. 
declared that it was “as if they had flown to Mars.”
challenges there, maritime insurance leader Lloyd’s 
tons of manganese ore onboard, sank somewhere between
vanished without a trace along nearly the same route.
the Berlitz language schools, stoked the legend even 
is no more logical than trying to find a common cause
they ran low on fuel and were forced to ditch at sea. 
In all probability, however, there is no single theory
including one in which the pilots of a squadron of U.S. 
storms, reefs and the Gulf Stream can cause navigational
in good weather without even radioing distress messages. 
there than in other well-traveled sections of the ocean. 
crew also disappeared. After a massive weeks-long search 
failed to turn up any evidence, the official Navy report 
whereas more scientifically minded theorists have pointed
he reported that a great flame of fire (probably a meteor)
Unexplained circumstances surround some of these accidents, 
Navy bombers became disoriented while flying over the area; 
theories have been proposed regarding the Bermuda Triangle, 
a 542-foot-long Navy cargo ship with over 300 men and 10,000
for every automobile accident in Arizona. Moreover, although
In fact, people navigate the area every day without incident.
He also wrote about erratic compass readings, perhaps because at
crashed into the sea one night and that a strange light appeared in 
which some scholars claim was based on a real-life Bermuda shipwreck, 
did not really capture the public’s attention until the 20th century. 
in a 1964 magazine article, additional mysterious accidents had occurred 
An especially infamous tragedy occurred in March 1918 when the USS Cyclops, 
in the area, including three passenger planes that went down despite having 
But with his compasses apparently malfunctioning, the leader of the mission, 
that time a sliver of the Bermuda Triangle was one of the few places on Earth 
After gaining widespread fame as the first person to sail solo around the globe, 
of London does not recognize the Bermuda Triangle as an especially hazardous place. 
Florida, airfield in order to conduct practice bombing runs over some nearby shoals. 
there has been nothing discovered that would indicate that casualties were the result 
of anything other than physical causes. No extraordinary factors have ever been identified.”
Neither does the U.S. Coast Guard, which says: “In a review of many aircraft and vessel losses 
