The Bermuda Triangle is a mythical section of the 
Atlantic Ocean roughly bounded by Miami, 
Bermuda and Puerto Rico where dozens of 
ships and airplanes have disappeared. 
Unexplained circumstances surround some of these accidents, 
including one in which the pilots of a squadron of U.S. 
Navy bombers became disoriented while flying over the area; 
the planes were never found. 
Other boats and planes have 
seemingly vanished from the area
in good weather without even radioing distress messages. 
But although myriad fanciful
theories have been proposed regarding the Bermuda Triangle, 
none of them prove that mysterious
disappearances occur more frequently
there than in other well-traveled sections of the ocean. 
In fact, people navigate the area every day without incident.
Legend of the Bermuda Triangle
The area referred to as the Bermuda Triangle, 
or Devil’s Triangle, covers about 500,000 square
miles of ocean off the southeastern tip of Florida. 
When Christopher Columbus sailed through the area
on his first voyage to the New World, 
he reported that a great flame of fire (probably a meteor)
crashed into the sea one night and that a strange light appeared in 
the distance a few weeks later. 
He also wrote about erratic compass readings, perhaps because at
that time a sliver of the Bermuda Triangle was one of the few places on Earth 
where true north and magnetic north lined up.
Did you know? 
After gaining widespread fame as the first person to sail solo around the globe, 
Joshua Slocum disappeared on a 1909 
voyage from Martha’s 
Vineyard to South America. 
Though it’s unclear exactly what happened, 
many sources later attributed his 
death to the Bermuda Triangle.
ADVERTISEMENT
William Shakespeare’s play “The Tempest,” 
which some scholars claim was based on a real-life Bermuda shipwreck, 
may have enhanced the area’s aura of mystery. 
Nonetheless, reports of unexplained disappearances 
did not really capture the public’s attention until the 20th century. 
An especially infamous tragedy occurred in March 1918 when the USS Cyclops, 
a 542-foot-long Navy cargo ship with over 300 men and 10,000
tons of manganese ore onboard, sank somewhere between
Barbados and the Chesapeake Bay. 
The Cyclops never
sent out an SOS distress call despite being
equipped to do so, and an extensive search
found no wreckage. “Only God and the sea know what 
happened to the great ship,” U.S. 
President Woodrow Wilson later said. 
In 1941 two of the Cyclops’ sister ships similarly 
vanished without a trace along nearly the same route.
A pattern allegedly began forming 
in which vessels traversing the Bermuda Triangle 
would either disappear or be found abandoned. 
Then, in December 1945, five Navy bombers carrying 
14 men took off from a Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, airfield in order to conduct practice bombing runs over some nearby shoals. 
But with his compasses apparently malfunctioning, the leader of the mission, 
known as Flight 19, got severely lost. 
All five planes flew aimlessly until 
they ran low on fuel and were forced to ditch at sea. 
That same day, a rescue plane and its 13-man 
crew also disappeared. After a massive weeks-long search 
failed to turn up any evidence, the official Navy report 
declared that it was “as if they had flown to Mars.”
Bermuda Triangle Theories and Counter-Theories
By the time author Vincent Gaddis 
coined the phrase “Bermuda Triangle”
in a 1964 magazine article, additional mysterious accidents had occurred 
in the area, including three passenger planes that went down despite having 
just sent “all’s well” messages. 
Charles Berlitz, whose grandfather founded 
the Berlitz language schools, stoked the legend even 
further in 1974 with a 
sensational bestseller about the legend. 
Since then, scores of fellow paranormal 
writers have blamed the triangle’s supposed 
lethalness on everything from aliens,
Atlantis and sea monsters to time 
warps and reverse gravity fields, 
whereas more scientifically minded theorists have pointed
to magnetic anomalies, waterspouts or 
huge eruptions of methane gas from the ocean floor.
In all probability, however, there is no single theory
that solves the mystery. As one skeptic
put it, trying to find a common cause for
every Bermuda Triangle disappearance
is no more logical than trying to find a common cause
for every automobile accident in Arizona. Moreover, although
storms, reefs and the Gulf Stream can cause navigational
challenges there, maritime insurance leader Lloyd’s 
of London does not recognize the Bermuda Triangle as an especially hazardous place. 
Neither does the U.S. Coast Guard, which says: “In a review of many aircraft and vessel losses 
in the area over the years, 
there has been nothing discovered that would indicate that casualties were the result 
of anything other than physical causes. No extraordinary factors have ever been identified.”